Add process for Disconnected Server via Leapp (#1427)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_upgrading-project-in-place-using-leapp.adoc

ifdef::satellite[]
* Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].
* If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, you must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].
* You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
* Follow the steps for obtaining ISO files for {RHEL} 8 and {Project} in xref:upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite[].
* Configure the `--enablerepo <id>` file specific with each repository.
* When running `leapp preupgrade` and `leapp upgrade`, you must pass `--enablerepo <id>` for each manually defined repository from the previous step.

> For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].

Reviewer: Can you move the disconnected requirements into a sublist? Something like:

```
* If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, the following additional prerequisites must be met:
  * You must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].
  * You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
  * …
```

ifdef::satellite[]
* Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].
* If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, you must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].
* You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
* Follow the steps for obtaining ISO files for {RHEL} 8 and {Project} in xref:upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite[].

> * Set `module_hotfixes=1` in the repository file when setting up the {Project} repositories.

Reviewer: I've not tested it in a disconnected setup, but with the most recent `leapp` update we shipped, this one shouldn't be necessary anymore.

Reviewer: The comment (even tho GitHub renders is differently) was only meant to the `module_hotfixes` line.

> * If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, the following additional prerequisites must be met:
>   - You must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].
>   - You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
> * Follow the steps for obtaining ISO files for {RHEL} 8 and {Project} in xref:upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite[].
> * Configure the `--enablerepo <id>` file specific with each repository.
> * When running `leapp preupgrade` and `leapp upgrade`, you must pass `--enablerepo <id>` for each manually defined repository from the previous step.
> For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, the following additional prerequisites must be met:
  - You must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].
  - You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
  - Follow the steps for obtaining ISO files for {RHEL} 8 and {Project} in xref:upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite[].
* For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].
```

I dropped the `--enablerepo` lines, as that is not a *pre*requisite, and is described in detail below.

Also made "Fore more info" an own point, as otherewise it rendered weirdly.

ifdef::satellite[]
* Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].

> * If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, ensure it meets the following prerequisites:

Reviewer 2: I think you could move this to an extra block ".Prerequisites for Disconnected Environments" and then keep a "flat" list structure.

** You must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually.

>   For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].
```

** You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.

> ** Follow the steps for obtaining ISO files for {RHEL} 8 and {Project} in xref:upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite[].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Obtain the ISO files for {RHEL} 8 and {Project}.
For more information, see xref:upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite[].
```

ifdef::satellite[]
* Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].

> * If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, the following additional prerequisites must be met:

Reviewer 2: Reword to active as in "ensure projects meets the following prerreq.

>   - You must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].

Reviewer 2: If you absolutely must use nested lists, please see https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/lists/unordered/#nested-unordered-list

(I think it's ok to do so!)

Also, one sentence per line.

  - You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
  - Follow the steps for obtaining ISO files for {RHEL} 8 and {Project} in xref:upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite[].
* For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].

> * When running `leapp preupgrade` and `leapp upgrade`, you must pass `--enablerepo <id>` for each manually defined repository from the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I think it's sufficient to be noted in the actual steps, it's not a pre-req.

Author: @evgeni I moved it right after the step talking about running in a disconnected environment. Let me know if that's a good spot for it.

> For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is now duplicated

ifdef::satellite[]
* Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].

.Prerequisites for Disconnected Environments

> * If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, ensure it meets the following prerequisites:
> ** You must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually.
>  For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].
> ** You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
> ** Obtain the ISO files for {RHEL} 8 and {Project}.
> For more information, see xref:upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite[].
> ** For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, ensure it meets the following prerequisites:
* You must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually.
 For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].
* You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
* Obtain the ISO files for {RHEL} 8 and {Project}.
For more information, see xref:upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite[].
* For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].
```
Personally, I wouldn't indent the bulleted list here. Let me know what you think about this.

Author: I like it better your way. Making the change.

ifdef::satellite[]
* Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].

> .Prerequisites for Disconnected Environments

Reviewer: I like the idea of an own pre-req section for disconnected!

If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, ensure it meets the following prerequisites:

* You must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually.
For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].
* You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
* Obtain the ISO files for {RHEL} 8 and {Project}.
For more information, see xref:upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite[].
* For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].
endif::[]
ifndef::satellite[]
* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
endif::[]
* If you previously upgraded {Project} from an earlier version, and the `/var/lib/pgsql` contained the PostgreSQL database content before the migration from PostgreSQL 9 to PostgreSQL 12 from the SCL, empty `/var/lib/pgsql` before proceeding.
* During the upgrade, the PostgreSQL data is moved from `/var/opt/rh/rh-postgresql12/lib/pgsql/data/` to `/var/lib/pgsql/data/`.

> If these two paths reside on the same partition, no further action is required.

Reviewer: These are now rendered as part of the "Prerequisites for Disconnected Environments" for Satellite, but they do apply for both!

Author: It's rendered in Foreman as well.

* {Project} {ProjectVersion} running on {RHEL} 7.
* Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].
* If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, you must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].
* You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
* Set `module_hotfixes=1` in the repository file when setting up the {Project} repositories.

> * When running `leapp preupgrade` and `leapp upgrade`, you must pass `--enablerepo <id>` for each manually defined repository from the previous step.

Reviewer 4: Being a bit blunt, I do not know what I need to pass to `--enablerepo <id>`. This is a bit unspecific and for that matter the set of instructions is quite vague. Could we beef this up by:

 1) Pointing users where and how to get the RHEL 8 ISO and Satellite on RHEL 8 ISOs
 2) Instruct users how to unpack them
 3) Make `--enablerepo <id>` specific with each repository given we are instruction the user on how to setup up the RHEL 8 and Satellite on RHEL 8 repositories from the ISOs

I would be OK if this re-uses or points back to the disconnected guide that has these detailed instructions (e.g. https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/1425).

My goal here would be to ensure we are as straight forward about the process as we can be to help our users out and prevent unnecessary support tickets.

Author: @ehelms Take a look at the latest change and see if these steps make sense. I added a reference to ISO files in the Upgrading a Disconnected Satellite guide before discussing the `enablerepo <id>`. Change the wording and order of the steps and/or add any additional content you think is necessary.

* {Project} {ProjectVersion} running on {RHEL} 7.
* Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].
* If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, you must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].
* You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.

> * Follow the steps for obtaining ISO files for {RHEL} 8 and {Project} in https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_satellite/6.11/html-single/upgrading_and_updating_red_hat_satellite/index#upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite[Upgrading a Disconnected {Project}].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Follow the steps for obtaining ISO files for {RHEL} 8 and {Project} in https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_satellite/{ProjectVersion}/html-single/upgrading_and_updating_red_hat_satellite/index#upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite[Upgrading a Disconnected {Project}].
```

Reviewer 4: The more I think about it the more I think we need to lay this out explicitly in this guide. Our disconnected guide is all about how to acquire ISO for the next version of Satellite and set it up on disk. In this workflow, we need users to:

 1) Acquire RHEL 8 ISO
 2) Acquire Satellite 6.11 RHEL 8 ISO
 3) Unpack them to location and repository files that are parallel to but do not over write the existing repository setup
 4) Run leapp commands with the specified RHEL 8 and Satlelite on RHEL 8 repository IDs

If we do not configure the system with the RHEL 8 repositories in parallel then we run the risk of a user running `leapp preupgrade`, running into problems they need to address but no longer having access to the RHEL 7 repositories and Satellite RHEL 7 repositories that may be needed while they address their identified `leapp` issues. 

If it would help for me to break what I mean by this out into more detail, I am happy to.

Author: @ehelms I pushed another change but maybe we can clarify Step 3 discussing unpacking the ISO files. This latest change I made doesn't specifically call that out.

Reviewer 4: In the disconnected installation and upgrade guides we lay out the steps to unpack the ISOs in a predictable manner for the user, it feels like we should do the same here and reduce the amount of guess work on the user's part.

Author: @ehelms Any chance you might be able to break this out into more detail? I was going to pull the steps for unpacking ISOs from the Disconnected Satellite Server section in the Upgrading Guide but I want to make sure I use the correct content.

# curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/theforeman-leapp.repo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/repo/epel-7/group_theforeman-leapp-epel-7.repo
----
endif::[]

+
.. On {RHEL}, enable the `rhel-7-server-extras-rpms` repository:
+
----
# subscription-manager repos --enable=rhel-7-server-extras-rpms
----
.. Enable the `rhel-7-server-rpms` repository:
+
----
# subscription-manager repos --enable=rhel-7-server-rpms
----
.. Enable the `rhel-7-server-satellite-{ProjectVersion}-rpm` repository:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="quotes, attributes"]
----
# subscription-manager repos --enable=rhel-7-server-satellite-{ProjectVersion}-rpm

> ----

Reviewer: I am torn on these. For connected setups, we don't call them out, as we expect them to be present anyways.
And in disconnected, we only *explicitly* say what to do in the "install satellite" and "upgrade satellite to a new version" documents, any other place that involved installing packages is silent about the fact that repos need to be available, as I think we expect people not to *remove* them?

@ehelms do you know what the "policy" here is? I'd love to avoid additional text/steps at all costs ;)

Author: @evgeni @ehelms How should I proceed with this?

Reviewer 4: If these should already be enabled at this point in the lifecycle of the Satellite itself, having been an installed product that is actively running I think we can skip the need to call these out.

Author: Removed.

----
# subscription-manager repos --enable=rhel-7-server-extras-rpms
----
ifdef::satellite[]

> .. Enable the `rhel-7-server-rpms` repository:
> +
> ----
> # subscription-manager repos --enable=rhel-7-server-rpms
> ----
> .. Enable the `rhel-7-server-satellite-{ProjectVersion}-rpm` repository:
> +
> [options="nowrap" subs="quotes, attributes"]
> ----
> # subscription-manager repos --enable=rhel-7-server-satellite-{ProjectVersion}-rpm
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Enable the `{RepoRHEL7Server}` repository:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="quotes, attributes"]
----
# subscription-manager repos --enable={RepoRHEL7Server}
----
.. Enable the `{RepoRHEL7ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}` repository:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="quotes, attributes"]
----
# subscription-manager repos --enable={RepoRHEL7ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}
----

```

let's use macros :)

+

> These repositories can come from a locally mounted ISO. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_satellite/6.11/html-single/installing_satellite_server_in_a_disconnected_network_environment/index#configuring-the-base-operating-system-with-offline-repositories-in-rhel-7_satellite[Configuring the Base Operating System with Offline Repositories in RHEL 7] in _Installing Satellite Server in a Disconnected Network Environment_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an disconnected environment, these repositories can come from a locally mounted ISO. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_satellite/6.11/html-single/installing_satellite_server_in_a_disconnected_network_environment/index#configuring-the-base-operating-system-with-offline-repositories-in-rhel-7_satellite[Configuring the Base Operating System with Offline Repositories in RHEL 7] in _Installing Satellite Server in a Disconnected Network Environment_.
```

endif::[]

. Install required packages:
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
+
----
# {package-install-project} leapp leapp-repository
----
ifdef::satellite[]
+
. For Leapp to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment, the metadata should be downloaded and extracted manually, as described in https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].

> 
> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

. Set up the following repositories to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment:

> .. `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel8.repo`:
> +
> ----
> [BaseOS]
> name=rhel-8-for-x86_64-baseos-rpms
> baseurl=http://server.example.com/rhel8/BaseOS/
> 
> [AppStream]
> name=rhel-8-for-x86_64-appstream-rpms
> baseurl=http://server.example.com/rhel8/AppStream/
> ----
> 
> +
> .. `/etc/yum.repos.d/satellite.repo:`
> [options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
> +
> ----
> [satellite-6.11-for-rhel-8-x86_64-rpms]
> name=satellite-6.11-for-rhel-8-x86_64-rpms
> baseurl=http://server.example.com/sat6/Satellite/
> 
> [satellite-maintenance-6.11-for-rhel-8-x86_64-rpms]
> name=satellite-maintenance-6.11-for-rhel-8-x86_64-rpms
> baseurl=http://server.example.com/sat6/Maintenance/
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel8.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[BaseOS]
name={RepoRHEL8BaseOS}
baseurl=http://server.example.com/rhel8/BaseOS/

[AppStream]
name={RepoRHEL8AppStream}
baseurl=http://server.example.com/rhel8/AppStream/
----

+
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/satellite.repo:`
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}
baseurl=http://server.example.com/sat6/Satellite/

[{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}
baseurl=http://server.example.com/sat6/Maintenance/
----
```

> . Since Leapp completes part of the upgrade in a container that has no access to additional ISO mounts, the repositories cannot be served from a locally mounted ISO.
> +
> [NOTE]
> ====
> These repositories are delivered over the network from a different machine.
> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
[NOTE]
====
Since Leapp completes part of the upgrade in a container that has no access to additional ISO mounts, the repositories cannot be served from a locally mounted ISO but must be delivered over the network from a different machine.
====
```

----
# subscription-manager repos --enable=rhel-7-server-extras-rpms
----
ifdef::satellite[]

> .. Enable the `{RepoRHEL7Server}` repository:

Reviewer 2: I am unsure if you want to merge anything about rhel7 to master. cc @evgeni 

It's probably el8 only by now according to our milestone. And el8 has IMHO no "server" variant.

Reviewer: this whole file doesn't really apply to master anymore, but we've kept it here for easier making changes and picking.

the *content* is correct.

+
[options="nowrap" subs="quotes, attributes"]
----
# subscription-manager repos --enable={RepoRHEL7Server}
----
.. Enable the `{RepoRHEL7ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}` repository:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="quotes, attributes"]
----
# subscription-manager repos --enable={RepoRHEL7ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}
----
+

> In a disconnected environment, these repositories can come from a locally mounted ISO. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_satellite/6.11/html-single/installing_satellite_server_in_a_disconnected_network_environment/index#configuring-the-base-operating-system-with-offline-repositories-in-rhel-7_satellite[Configuring the Base Operating System with Offline Repositories in RHEL 7] in _Installing Satellite Server in a Disconnected Network Environment_.

Reviewer 2: one sentence per line.

>  endif::[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

stray endif, which gets rendered as text ;)

endif::[]

. Install required packages:
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
+
----
# {package-install-project} leapp leapp-repository
----
ifdef::satellite[]

> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

. For Leapp to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment, the metadata should be downloaded and extracted manually, as described in https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].

. Set up the following repositories to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment:
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel8.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[BaseOS]
name={RepoRHEL8BaseOS}
baseurl=http://server.example.com/rhel8/BaseOS/
[AppStream]
name={RepoRHEL8AppStream}
baseurl=http://server.example.com/rhel8/AppStream/
----
+

> .. `/etc/yum.repos.d/satellite.repo:`

Reviewer 2: please use an attribute here.

Author: @evgeni Is there an attribute for this?

Reviewer 2: I meant using an attribute instead of "satellite.repo". I guess you can use any attribute containing the project name if there is no whitespace. I am unsure if we have an "all lower case" one.

Author: @maximiliankolb There appears to be an attribute that renders "satellite" in all lower case. It's {project-context}.

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}
baseurl=http://server.example.com/sat6/Satellite/
[{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}

> baseurl=http://server.example.com/sat6/Maintenance/

Reviewer 2: also use attributes if possible.

Author: @evgeni are there attributes for the base URLs?

Reviewer: I don't think we do, no. And we didn't use any in `guides/doc-Upgrading_and_Updating/topics/upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite.adoc` either.

----
# {package-install-project} leapp leapp-repository
----
ifdef::satellite[]

> . For Leapp to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment, the metadata should be downloaded and extracted manually, as described in https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].

Reviewer 2: Please reword "should be downloaded".

Maybe "Download the ....
For more information see X." ?

. Set up the following repositories to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment:
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel8.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[BaseOS]
name={RepoRHEL8BaseOS}

> baseurl=http://server.example.com/rhel8/BaseOS/

Reviewer 2: If it has to be replaced, make it italic:

```suggestion
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel8/BaseOS/
```

See also all other baseURLs.

----
# {package-install-project} leapp leapp-repository
----
ifdef::satellite[]
. For Leapp to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment, download the metadata and manually extract, as described in https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].

. Set up the following repositories to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment:
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel8.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[BaseOS]
name={RepoRHEL8BaseOS}

> baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel8/BaseOS/
> [AppStream]
> name={RepoRHEL8AppStream}
> baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel8/AppStream/
> ----
> +
> .. `/etc/yum.repos.d/{project-context}.repo:`
> +
> [options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
> ----
> [{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}]
> name={RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}
> baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Satellite/
> [{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}]
> name={RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}
> baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Maintenance/

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
baseurl=http://_{foreman-example-com}_/rhel8/BaseOS/
[AppStream]
name={RepoRHEL8AppStream}
baseurl=http://_{foreman-example-com}_/rhel8/AppStream/
----
+
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/{project-context}.repo:`
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}
baseurl=http://_{foreman-example-com}_/sat6/Satellite/
[{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}
baseurl=http://_{foreman-example-com}_/sat6/Maintenance/
```

Reviewer 5: I'm not sure about the example server URL here.
The following NOTE says that the ISO must be mounted on a different machine than the "foreman server" (?).
Perhaps the example server should reflect this?
Something like: `server-with-mounted-iso.example.com/sat6/...` ?

Reviewer 3: I see, thanks for the correction. Please ignore this suggestion, then.

----
+
[NOTE]
====
Since Leapp completes part of the upgrade in a container that has no access to additional ISO mounts, the repositories cannot be served from a locally mounted ISO but must be delivered over the network from a different machine.

> ====

Reviewer 5: Should this, instead of a note, be a step in the procedure or a prerequisite to mount the ISO?

Author: @evgeni Your thoughts on Lena's comments here?

Reviewer: Well, the whole point is, that it *cannot* be mounted as an ISO and must be served from an external machine.

At some point in the writing of this document, we had a pointer to https://access.redhat.com/solutions/5492401 which explains how an offline Leapp upgrade works in general (outside of the Satellite context). It seems to have gone missing now.

I don't mind how exactly this step and the note (if any) is formatted, but the takeaway for the reader needs to be:
* they need a dedicated machine serving repositories for RHEL (BaseOS and AppStream) and Satellite (Satellite and Maintenance)
* they absolutely cannot use the same machine for that (as they can with a normal disconnected upgrade)

Author: I moved this to the Prerequsites for Disconnected Environments and added https://access.redhat.com/solutions/5492401 as well.

----
# {package-install-project} leapp leapp-repository
----
ifdef::satellite[]
. For Leapp to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment, download the metadata and manually extract, as described in https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].

. Set up the following repositories to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment:
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel8.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[BaseOS]
name={RepoRHEL8BaseOS}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel8/BaseOS/

> [AppStream]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[AppStream]
```

makes the file better readable with an empty line

name={RepoRHEL8AppStream}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel8/AppStream/
----
+
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/{project-context}.repo:`
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Satellite/

> [{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}]
```

makes the file better readable with an empty line

# {package-install-project} leapp leapp-repository
----

+

> . After the `leapp` and `leapp-repository` packages are installed, the machine does not need access to the {RHEL} 7 repositories anymore.

Reviewer: I know I mentioned this in my notes, but I think it doesn't deserve an own step.

You can add it to the "setup RHEL7 repos" step as a comment, but I guess it's also fine to just ommit it.

Author: I can go ahead and omit this line.

+

> . For Leapp to perform the upgrade, the metadata should be downloaded and extracted manually, as described in https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].

Reviewer: This step needs to point out that it is specific for disconnected.

+

> . Set up the following repositories to perform the upgrade:

Reviewer: This step needs to point out that it is specific for disconnected.

.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel8.repo`:
+
----
[BaseOS]
name=rhel-8-for-x86_64-baseos-rpms
baseurl=http://server.example.com/rhel8/BaseOS/

[AppStream]
name=rhel-8-for-x86_64-appstream-rpms
baseurl=http://server.example.com/rhel8/AppStream/
----

+
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/satellite.repo:`
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
+
----
[satellite-6.11-for-rhel-8-x86_64-rpms]
name=satellite-6.11-for-rhel-8-x86_64-rpms
baseurl=http://server.example.com/sat6/Satellite/

[satellite-maintenance-6.11-for-rhel-8-x86_64-rpms]
name=satellite-maintenance-6.11-for-rhel-8-x86_64-rpms
baseurl=http://server.example.com/sat6/Maintenance/
----

+

> . Since Leapp completes part of the upgrade in a container that has no access to additional ISO mounts, the repositories cannot be served from a locally mounted ISO.

Reviewer: This should be a note in the previous step, not an own step.

> Instead, these repositories are delivered over the network from a different machine.

Reviewer: This should be a note in the previous step, not an own step.

[leapp-foreman-plugins]
name=Foreman plugins {ProjectVersion}
baseurl=https://_yum.theforeman.org_/plugins/{ProjectVersion}/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=0
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-foreman-client]
name=Foreman client {ProjectVersion}
baseurl=https://_yum.theforeman.org_/client/{ProjectVersion}/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman-client

[leapp-puppet7]
name=Puppet 7 Repository el 8 - $basearch

> baseurl=http://_yum.puppetlabs.com_/puppet7/el/8/$basearch

Reviewer 2: are users meant to replace the URL to yum.theforeman.org? I don't think so, so I also think you should not make it italic. Is there any reason for this change? (also applies to all other URLs to yum.theforeman.org.

Author: I only now realized for example.com URLs it makes sense for italics. I took it too literally.

----
# leapp preupgrade
----
ifdef::satellite[]
+
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, add the `--no-rhsm` and `--enablerepo` parameters:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp preupgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}
----
+

> When running `leapp preupgrade` and `leapp upgrade`, you must pass `--enablerepo <id>` for each manually defined repository from the previous step.

Reviewer 3: Not sure what to put in place of `<id>`, but I think there should be another sentence like "Replace `<id>` with the id of the repository." I don't know whether it is an id of the repository, but it should be mention what to replace `<id>` with.

Author: I believe the `<id>` is for the repository ID. I feel like the `<id>` is self explanatory for the user to put the ID number of the repository here. Would an extra sentence explaining it as suggested make sense here @evgeni ?

Reviewer 2: For hightlighting, we generally use italics if users have to make adjustements, so that'd be `_ID_` in asciidoc.

Reviewer: I'd argue this line is a duplicate of the explicit instructions at the beginning of this step and can be dropped alltogether?

However, I'd add the same explicit commands as above to the `leapp upgrade` invocation below.

Reviewer 2: Sure, if you can simplify steps by removing parts, go for it!

Author: I went ahead and removed the line and took the commands above and moved them into the step after running `leapp upgrade`.

endif::[]

+
The first run is expected to fail but report issues and inhibit the upgrade.

> Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions (using `leapp answer`) and manually resolve the other reported problems.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions (using `leapp answer`), and manually resolve the other reported problems.
```

----
# leapp preupgrade
----
ifdef::satellite[]
+
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, add the `--no-rhsm` and `--enablerepo` parameters:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp preupgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \

> --enablerepo AppStream \
> --enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}
```

you need both Satellite and Maintenance repos ;)

----
# leapp preupgrade
----
ifdef::satellite[]
+
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, add the `--no-rhsm` and `--enablerepo` parameters:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----

> # leapp preupgrade --no-rhsm --enablerepo BaseOS --enablerepo AppStream --enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion} --enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# leapp preupgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}
```

Please also sort alphabetically.

Reviewer 6: Is it me or is `RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion` listed twice?

Author: @ekohl Took out the duplicate.

----
# leapp preupgrade
----

+
The first run is expected to fail but report issues and inhibit the upgrade.

+
Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions (using `leapp answer`) and manually resolve the other reported problems.

> ifdef::satellite[]

Reviewer: I'd merge this with the previous section, so you get something like this:

```
. Let Leapp analyze your system:
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----
ifdef::satellite[]
+
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, add the `--no-rhsm` and `--enablerepo` parameters:
----
# leapp preupgrade --no-rhsm --enablerepo BaseOS --enablerepo AppStream --enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion} --enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}
----
endif::[]
```

----
# leapp preupgrade
----
ifdef::satellite[]
+
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, add the `--no-rhsm` and `--enablerepo` parameters:

> [options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
```

====
If you install the system and need to use `--disable-system-checks`, the last step of the upgrade is going to fail, and you need to call `{foreman-installer} --disable-system-checks` manually once the system reboots.
====

ifdef::satellite[]
.Upgrade Disconnected {Project} Server via Leapp

> . You must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. You must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually.
For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].
```

. You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
* Set `module_hotfixes=1` in the repository file when setting up the {Project} repositories.
. When running `leapp preupgrade` and `leapp upgrade`, they must pass `--enablerepo <id>` for each manually defined repository from the previous step.

> For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your Red Hat Enterprise Linux in-place upgrade].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].
```

====
If you install the system and need to use `--disable-system-checks`, the last step of the upgrade is going to fail, and you need to call `{foreman-installer} --disable-system-checks` manually once the system reboots.
====

ifdef::satellite[]
.Upgrade Disconnected {Project} Server via Leapp
. You must obtain and deploy Leapp metadata manually.
For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/3664871[Leapp utility metadata in-place upgrades of RHEL for disconnected upgrades].

> . You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/solutions/5492401[How to in-place upgrade an offline / disconnected RHEL 7 machine to RHEL 8 with Leapp].
```

* Set `module_hotfixes=1` in the repository file when setting up the {Project} repositories.

> . When running `leapp preupgrade` and `leapp upgrade`, they must pass `--enablerepo <id>` for each manually defined repository from the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. When running `leapp preupgrade` and `leapp upgrade`, you must pass `--enablerepo <id>` for each manually defined repository from the previous step.
```

# leapp upgrade
----

ifdef::satellite[]
+
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, add the following parameters:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----

> # leapp preupgrade \

Reviewer 2: why is it `leapp preupgrade` twice? @evgeni made a comment on consolidating these two sections.

Author: Removed.

# leapp upgrade
----

ifdef::satellite[]
+
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, add the following parameters:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----

> # leapp upgrade --no-rhsm --enablerepo BaseOS --enablerepo AppStream --enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion} --enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}

Reviewer 2: maybe split to one parameter per line?

----
endif::[]

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

# leapp upgrade
----

ifdef::satellite[]
+
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, add the following parameters:

> [options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
```

----

> leapp upgrade --no-rhsm --enablerepo BaseOS --enablerepo AppStream --enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion} --enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# leapp upgrade --no-rhsm --enablerepo BaseOS --enablerepo AppStream --enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion} --enablerepo {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}
```

# leapp upgrade
----

ifdef::satellite[]
+
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, add the following parameters:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp upgrade
--no-rhsm

> --enablerepo BaseOS

Reviewer 2: This requires backslashes to escape the new lines IMHO. see above.

# leapp upgrade
----

> ifdef::satellite[]

Reviewer: same as with `preupgrade`, I wouldn't make it an own step, but add it to the "real" `upgrade` step
